---
layout: single
title:  "ARC209"
header:
  teaser: "unsplash-gallery-image-2-th.jpg"
categories:
  - Jekyll
tags:
  - aws
  - reinvent
  - las vegas

---

Multi region active active.

Top tip.. don't make multi region active active.

A bit like chemotherapy for the cold.

Reserve it for when needed. If you are going to do it, do it right.

So.. you want a multi region architecture.
Active stacks in 2 regions.

Speed of light. Oregon to Mumbai. 300ms. Replication lag.
Lots of testing.

Creates complexity. Causes failures.
Volcanos happen. Human error happens more! Likely to increase risk without the investment!

So why do it?
Business continuity.. 99.99 not enough, really need more.. Some use cases.

Geographically distributed customer base.
E.g gaming or equity trading.
Legal and regularly compliance.

Quearioms:
How much redundancy do we need?
How does this service access persistent data?
Too much insurance is stupid.

Multi region architecture is not necessarily multi region active active.

How much data can we afford to lose? Rto
How quickly must we recover? Rto

Data temperature.
Cold is backups.
E.g Snapshots are automatically backed up to other regions.

Pilot light. E.g critical core part that needs to be running and can't go down.

Warm - standby. Scaled down but fully functioning.

How do I re design my single region to be active active? Can we do any thing else first.
Double costs double complexity.

Patter  1. Read local, write global.
Biggest problem is data collisions.
Read local, write global.
Great for 90 95% reads. E.g registration.
Could write to both sides bit choose not to.

Pattern 2. Read local, write partitioned.
Application routes to data store based on where user registered. Can't collide. Then syncs over.
E.g users are written to one region. Marked as thay region. Lower latency than pattern 1 most the time j less someone flies to the other region then uses it. Is that problem?

Pattern 3. Don't use this. Read local, write local.
Risks race conditions.
What happens when collision happens? Pick rules.. but more complexity.


S3 cross region replication examples.
Ebs snapshots copy to different regions. Incremental copy and snapshots. Remember not just the deployment but the application needs replicating too. E.g second region running an old version!

Dynamo global tables. Can just add and remove regions. Keeps track of collisions and can identify which was actually first.

Cross region read replicas. Can be promoted on demand. Is actually a warm standby not active active.

Master master for aurira coming soon!!!

Inter region vpc peering. Amazon backbone.
Reduced exposure to internet to communicate across regions.

Route53 is always the key. Health checks. Failover.
Depends on reason for multi region.
Latency based routing.
Geolocation.
Dns Failover.

Traffic management - network load balancer. Why js this important? Load balancing j
is in a region?access to inter region peered vpc.


How do I manage the environment.
Cloudformation. Infrastructure as code.
Stacksets!

Audit
Aws config rules can be used. Aws systems manager.

Centralised cloudwatch logs. Shove jt all in s3.

 Network outage
Security problem
Vpc down
Region down
Az down?


Take away
1 Significant complexity.
2  consider if you need active active?
3 if you are going to do it, design to reduce race co editions.
Use
