---
layout: single
title:  "SEC304 AWS Secrets manager: Best practices for managing, retrieving and rotating secrets at scale"
header:
  teaser: "unsplash-gallery-image-2-th.jpg"
categories:
  - Jekyll
tags:
  - aws
  - reinvent
  - las vegas

---

Apurv


secrets manager

I don't want to email secrets
I want to stop secret sprawl
I want to prevent developers sharing secrets
I want to avoid local secrets

AWS Secrets manager enables customers ot manage, retrieve and rotate secrets.
IT admins - Store secrets at scale
Security admins: audit and monitor secret usage.
Developers - keep creds out of applications.

Capabilities:
Capabilities driven from customer feedback.
- Secured centrally
- 99% available
  - Rrtrieved programatically.
  - Encrypted by default using keys owned by customers
  - Supports VPC endpoints
  - Integrated with cloudformation
  - Support for client-side caching.
  - Compliant with HIPA, and as of today, PCI and ISO.
  - aws secrets manager create-secret --name 'blah'
- Fine granted access control and auditability
  - Fine graned access tontroll using api policies.
  - Resourced based policies for cross-account access
  - Tag based access control and hierarchical names for scalability. E.g you can tag your secrets and then base permissions on those tags, e.g audit team can see secrets tagged with 'audit'.
  - Policy is actually attached to secret rather than iam user/group/role Similar to bucket policy.
  - Integrated with CloudTrail, CloudWatch
  - Control access and audit use to prevent secret sprawl.

  Example - business partner needs SSH key. COuld email it. Or could store it, attach resource based policy. Give access using IAM role.
- Rotate secrets safely
  - Built in integrations for rotatng RDS passwords.
  - Extensible with AWS lambnda
  - Use versioning so applications don't break when secrets are rotated
  - Pay for the API call; no charge for rotating.
  - You can configure it to keep old ones active, or a number of old versions.
Question: When rotating credentials for RDS< are connections killed?

- PAYG
  - Payment model. 30 day free trial for experimentation.
  - $0.40 per secret per month (Based on secrets, not on versions).
  - $0.05 per 10,000 API calls.
  - Client side caching available AWS SDK etc.

  Demo:

  Bastion Host NAT gateway _ internet gateway in subnet 1 (public)
  private subnet 1 SQL db 0 no public IP. Lambda for rotating secret.

  Open secrets managr in console.
  - Select type (RDS database).
  - Enter username + password.
  - Select how to encrypt and which db it is for.
  - Provide sensible secret name.
  - Team name Odin tag (Haha)

  - Enable automatic rotation 30 days. Question: Does this create a lambda in the background? Yes. They may need access with SGs etc or VPC endpoints.
  - Example code for access thesecret is given.


  Adopting secrets manager:
  1. Remove plain text Secrets

    Pro tips:
    Set up conventions - Define practices for naming:
      Bad practice: TestSecretsManager
      Use names that are meaningful
      Hierachical - e.g prod/MyMobileAPp/MySQL
      Use description
      Use tags

  2. Rotate frequently.
  Pro tips:
    Check compliance requirements.
    Use VPC endpoints
    New lambda vs existing for rotating password:
      - New lambda requires IAM role. Easier to manage a smaller number of functions and roles.

  3. Retrirve programatically
  Pro tips:
    - They have suport for rotating using a JDBC driver - launched last week!
    - If you are writing lambdas retrieve the secret outside the handler to cache it in the environments.
    - There is a schedule for deletion option which can be used to allow restoration for a period of time.

  4. Lock down permissions
  Pro tips:
    - Tightly control secretsmanager:* permissions
    - Grant listSecrets and describeSecret (Not readvalue)
    - Configuring rotation requires IAM permissions.
    - Seperate storing, retrieving and configuring rotation tasks.
    - Use tags to group secretsmanagerUse tag-on-create to make secrets management self-services
    - Cross-account requires CMK.



  5. Use unique Secrets
  Use secret manager means different secrets in different regions - use unique secrets.
  Use regional endpoints for getting the secrets using the unique region endpoint.

  6. Audit and monitor the use of secrets.
  Sanity check number of Secrets
  Operate secrets manager in each account (Not all centrally in one acc) - Blast radius.

Pro tips:- Monitor attempts to retrieve secrets that are scheduled for deletion!
Monitor high value secrets
CloudTrail records all secret manager API calls. Expect an increase in the size of your trails.


Things to look into:
https://www.google.com/search?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&q=putty+ssh+key+pageant&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8

  Questions:
What happens to existing connections when rotating secrets?
